# Bengali and English Handwritten Character Recognition Using Artificial Neural Network

The purpose of this project is to take handwritten Bengali characters as input, process the character, train the neural network algorithm, to recognize the pattern and modify the character to a beautified version of the input. This project is aimed at developing software which will be helpful in recognizing characters of Bengali language. At-first this project was restricted to Bengali characters only. Later I try to do it in English. It can be further developed to recognize the characters of different languages. This project is already developed in the English language. It engulfs the concept of neural network. One of the primary reason by which computers are possessed with humanlike abilities is through the use of a neural network. Neural Networks are particularly effective for solving problems that cannot be expressed as a series of steps, such as recognizing patterns, classifying them into groups, series prediction, and data mining.

Pattern recognition is possibly the most common use of Neural Networks. The Neural Network is submitted with a target vector and also a vector which contains the pattern information, this could be an image and handwritten data. The Neural Network then endeavors to determine if the input data matches a pattern that the Neural Network has memorized. A Neural Network trained for classification is designed to take input samples and sorting them into groups. These groups may be fuzzy, without clearly defined boundaries. This project concerns finding out free handwritten characters.
